CODEBOOK FOR AGGREGATED AVERAGE OF HUMAN ACTIVITY RECOGNITION USING SMARTPHONE’S DATA SET

The variables in this tidy data set represent aggregated average values of raw data obtained from the Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphone’s Data Set.  The original source data set is obtained at:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

The original data set consists of data generated by the accelerometers and gyro scopes of a Samsung Galaxy S II phone.  The phones were worn by 30 subjects while they performed six different activities 

The final data set was produced by modifying and transforming the original data set as follows:
1.	Merge data from training and test data set files below into single data frame:
	X_train.txt,  y_train.txt, X_test.txt', y_test.txt, subject_train.txt and subject_test.txt
2.	Extract only mean and standard deviations from original data set.
3.	Replace numbers designating activities in original data set with descriptive activity names from file named activity_labels.txt.
4.	Make labels from table more appropriate for the final tidy dataset by using string substitutions and by removing “untidy characters” such as), -, (, _, and coma. 
5.	The averages are aggregated for each activity and subject.

 
3) a code book that describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work that you performed to clean up the data called CodeBook.md

[1]	subject

This is an id number for each subject.
	
	VALUES:		

	Integer value ranging 1 - 30

 
[2]	trainingLabels

Descriptive labels for training activities.

	VALUES:
  
	WALKING
	WALKING_UPSTAIRS
	WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
	SITTING
	STANDING
	LAYING

                   
[3]	timeBodyAccMeanX

Time domain aggregate average of X mean acceleration value.


[4]	timeBodyAccMeanY

Time domain aggregate average of Y mean acceleration value.

                  
[5]	timeBodyAccMeanZ

Time domain aggregate average of Z mean acceleration value.  

                   
[6]	timeBodyAccStdX
	
Time domain aggregate average of X mean acceleration standard deviation value.

                     
[7]	timeBodyAccStdY

Time domain aggregate average of Y acceleration standard deviation value.



[8]	timeBodyAccStdZ

Time domain aggregate average of Z acceleration standard deviation value.
 

                   
[9]	timeGravityAccMeanX

Time domain aggregate average of mean X gravity acceleration value.


[10]	timeGravityAccMeanY

Time domain aggregate average of mean y gravity acceleration value.

                
[11]	timeGravityAccMeanZ

Time domain aggregate average of mean Z gravity acceleration value.


[12]	timeGravityAccStdX

Time domain aggregate average of X gravity acceleration standard deviation value.

                  
[13]	timeGravityAccStdY

Time domain aggregate average of Y gravity acceleration standard deviation value.


[14]	timeGravityAccStdZ

Time domain aggregate average of Z gravity acceleration standard deviation value.
               
[15]	timeBodyAccJerkMeanX

Time domain aggregate average of mean X acceleration jerk value.


[16]	timeBodyAccJerkMeanY        

Time domain aggregate average of mean y acceleration jerk value.
        

[17]	timeBodyAccJerkMeanZ

Time domain aggregate average of mean X acceleration jerk value.


[18]	timeBodyAccJerkStdX 

Time domain aggregate average of X acceleration jerk standard deviation value.

                
[19]	timeBodyAccJerkStdY

Time domain aggregate average of Y acceleration jerk standard deviation value.

[20]	timeBodyAccJerkStdZ       

Time domain aggregate average of Z acceleration jerk standard deviation value.
          
[21]	timeBodyGyroMeanX

Time domain aggregate average of X gyro mean value.



[22]	timeBodyGyroMeanY  

Time domain aggregate average of Y gyro mean value.

                 

[23]	timeBodyGyroMeanZ

Time domain aggregate average of Z gyro mean value.



[24]	timeBodyGyroStdX 

Time domain aggregate average of X gyro standard deviation value.


                   
[25]	timeBodyGyroStdY

Time domain aggregate average of Y gyro standard deviation value.



[26]	timeBodyGyroStdZ    

Time domain aggregate average of Z gyro standard deviation value.


                
[27]	timeBodyGyroJerkMeanX

Time domain aggregate average of X gyro jerk mean value.



[28]	timeBodyGyroJerkMeanY   

Time domain aggregate average of Y gyro jerk mean value.


            
[29]	timeBodyGyroJerkMeanZ

Time domain aggregate average of Z gyro jerk mean value.



[30]	timeBodyGyroJerkStdX 

Time domain aggregate average of X gyro jerk standard deviation value.
               
[31]	timeBodyGyroJerkStdY

Time domain aggregate average of Y gyro jerk standard deviation value.


[32]	timeBodyGyroJerkStdZ  

Time domain aggregate average of X gyro jerk standard deviation value.

              
[33]	timeBodyAccMagMean

Time domain aggregate average of AccMag mean value.


[34]	timeBodyAccMagStd  

Time domain aggregate average of AccMag standard deviation value.

                 
[35]	timeGravityAccMagMean

Time domain aggregate average of gravity AccMag mean value.


[36]	timeGravityAccMagStd  

Time domain aggregate average of gravity AccMag standard deviation value.


[37]	timeBodyAccJerkMagMean

Time domain aggregate average of AccJerkMag mean value.


[38]	timeBodyAccJerkMagStd 

Time domain aggregate average of AccJerkMag standard deviation value.

              
[39]	timeBodyGyroMagMean

Time domain aggregate average of GyroMag mean value.


[40]	timeBodyGyroMagStd 

Time domain aggregate average of acceleration standard deviation value.
                 
[41]	timeBodyGyroJerkMagMean

Time domain aggregate average of GyroJerkMag mean value.

[42]	timeBodyGyroJerkMagStd

Time domain aggregate average of GyroJerkMag standard deviation value.

              
[43]	frequencyBodyAccMeanX

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccMeanX.


[44]	frequencyBodyAccMeanY   

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccMeanY.

            
[45]	frequencyBodyAccMeanZ

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccMeanZ.



[46]	frequencyBodyAccStdX                

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccStdX.


[47]	frequencyBodyAccStdY

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccStdY.



[48]	frequencyBodyAccStdZ                

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccStdZ.


[49]	frequencyBodyAccMeanFreqX

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccMeanFreqX.


[50]	frequencyBodyAccMeanFreqY           

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccMeanFreqY.


[51]	frequencyBodyAccMeanFreqZ

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccMeanFreqZ.


[52]	frequencyBodyAccJerkMeanX           

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccJerkMeanX.


[53]	frequencyBodyAccJerkMeanY

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccJerkMeanY.


[54]	frequencyBodyAccJerkMeanZ

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccJerkMeanZ.


[55]	frequencyBodyAccJerkStdX

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccJerkStdX.


[56]	frequencyBodyAccJerkStdY            

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccJerkStdY.


[57]	frequencyBodyAccJerkStdZ

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccJerkStdZ.


[58]	frequencyBodyAccJerkMeanFreqX       

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccJerkMeanFreqX.


[59]	frequencyBodyAccJerkMeanFreqY

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccJerkMeanFreqY.


[60]	frequencyBodyAccJerkMeanFreqZ       

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccJerkMeanFreqZ.


[61]	frequencyBodyGyroMeanX

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyGyroMeanX.


[62]	frequencyBodyGyroMeanY              

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyGyroMeanY.


[63]	frequencyBodyGyroMeanZ

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyGyroMeanZ.


[64]	frequencyBodyGyroStdX               

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyGyroStdX.


[65]	frequencyBodyGyroStdY

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyGyroStdY.


[66]	frequencyBodyGyroStdZ               

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyGyroStdZ.


[67]	frequencyBodyGyroMeanFreqX

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyGyroMeanFreqX.


[68]	frequencyBodyGyroMeanFreqY          

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of time BodyGyroMeanFreqY.  


[69]	frequencyBodyGyroMeanFreqZ

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyGyroMeanFreqZ.


[70]	frequencyBodyAccMagMean             

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccMagMean.


[71]	frequencyBodyAccMagStd

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccMagStd.


[72]	frequencyBodyAccMagMeanFreq         

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyAccMagMeanFreq.


[73]	frequencyBodyBodyAccJerkMagMean

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyBodyAccJerkMagMean.



[74]	frequencyBodyBodyAccJerkMagStd      

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyBodyAccJerkMagStd.


[75]	frequencyBodyBodyAccJerkMagMeanFreq

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyBodyAccJerkMagMeanFreq.



[76]	frequencyBodyBodyGyroMagMean        

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyBodyGyroMagMean  


[77]	frequencyBodyBodyGyroMagStd

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyBodyGyroMagStd.


[78]	frequencyBodyBodyGyroMagMeanFreq    

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyBodyGyroMagMeanFreq.


[79]	frequencyBodyBodyGyroJerkMagMean

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyBodyGyroJerkMagMean.


[80]	frequencyBodyBodyGyroJerkMagStd 

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyBodyGyroJerkMagStd.

    
[81]	frequencyBodyBodyGyroJerkMagMeanFreq

Aggregate average of FFT transformed version of timeBodyBodyGyroJerkMagMeanFreq.


[82]	angletBodyAccMeanGravity            

Aggregate average of angletBodyAccMeanGravity from original data set.


[83]	angletBodyAccJerkMeanGravityMean

Aggregate average of angletBodyAccJerkMeanGravityMean from original data set.


[84]	angletBodyGyroMeanGravityMean       

Aggregate average of angletBodyGyroMeanGravityMean from original data set.

[85]	angletBodyGyroJerkMeanGravityMean

Aggregate average of angletBodyGyroJerkMeanGravityMean from original data set.


[86]	angleXGravityMean                   

Aggregate average of angleXGravityMean from original data set.


[87]	angleYGravityMean

Aggregate average of angleYGravityMean from original data set.


[88]	angleZGravityMean  

Aggregate average of angleZGravityMean from original data set.
